[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Let's
go into the essence
of five of the missing chapters,
and including this symbol.
>>STEVEN ROSS: I brought the
dream to Pearl, and she gasped.
She goes, oh, I think
Mr. Hall should see this.
He looks at me and
he goes, who are you?
It isn't about what political
party you belong to.
It isn't about what
religion you belong to.
Why am I here?
>>REGINA: As we see society
losing its bearings in terms
of discernment and
truth, we can find sanity
in some of the ancient
mysteries of times past.
Manly P. Hall dedicated his
life to the preservation
and perpetuation of
the great teachings
in his book, The Secret
Teachings of All Ages.
Our guest today, Stephen
Ross, spent time with Hall
and had the profound
gift of being allowed
into his private vault of
documents, where he found
unknown works by Manly P. Hall.
I mean, this is a big deal.
This is 1928, almost 100
years ago, when he wrote this.
People don't understand,
Manly was a young man,
but he was downloading from
other realms and lifetimes
of knowledge.
And we're going to go into
how you ended up in his sphere
and in his vaults, and then
surprise everybody with what
follows.
Welcome back, Steven.
>>ROSS: Thank you, Regina.
I always appreciate you
inviting me here and allowing
me to share with your audience.
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
It's always so-- you know,
I always close my eyes
and take a little breath just
before the camera comes on.
And whenever you're
here, it's just
there's so much heart
energy, and besides all
of the kind of massive
light around the top side.
I just love it.
>>ROSS: Thank you.
>>REGINA: So let's
start in the late 1970s,
when you went to a Friday
night lecture in Los Angeles.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Where Manly P.
Hall centered his work.
>>ROSS: Correct.
I really was introduced to
the esoteric metaphysical
information in 1974.
And in 1978, someone
mentioned to me
about a great philosopher, Manly
P. Hall, and his Philosophical
Research Society, an incredible
place, 50,000 volumes
with materials dated to BC.
So I wandered down to the
center on a Friday night Lyceum,
and there were about
70 people in this room.
Now I was not the
bravest of individuals
with my math science
background in sports,
wandering into a philosophy
place and esoteric.
So I did what I
did in that time.
I went way in the back,
sat in the last row.
>>REGINA: A little
coward in your 20s.
>>ROSS: There you go.
Just a fly on the wall.
And in the front of the
room was a blackboard.
There were six
sentences written.
And in the front were
three individuals
who were the moderators.
There was two gentlemen
who I later would find out
had followed Mr. Hall
for about 35 years,
and then a woman
named Pearl Thomas,
who was the personal
librarian at the PRS.
And they would answer questions
of the previous Sunday's Mr.
Hall lecture.
Every Sunday he lectured.
>>REGINA: Right.
Then the following Friday night.
>>ROSS: They would discuss
six or seven points.
So the meeting was going along,
and somebody in the audience
asked the moderators, what
about point number six?
And all of a sudden Pearl Thomas
raises up her hand and points
into the audience, and she
was pointing right at me.
And I could see people
shifting their position so she
wouldn't be pointing at them.
And the next thing I remember--
>>REGINA: So the crowd
parted and the finger's
pointing at you.
>>ROSS: The seas
parted, and there it
was, the finger pointed at me.
And I'm thinking, what is this?
But I ended up speaking.
I did not remember what I said.
But when I finished,
everybody was looking at me.
And it just so happened after
that, the group broke up,
and I was looking to leave.
Pearl Thomas, who I found
out she was in her late 80s,
had been with Mr.
Hall for 60 years.
She says to me, how long have
you been studying Mr. Hall?
How many books have you read?
I said, I've never
read any of his books.
Well, how many lectures
have you attended?
I have never heard him lecture.
And she said to me, young man--
because I was young
then, back in the '70s--
>>REGINA: In your 20s, yeah.
>>ROSS: Please
visit me tomorrow,
Saturday, in the library.
So the next day I
go into the library.
Magnificent.
Regina, 50,000 books
all behind glass.
You would find a book,
talk to the librarian,
she would open it with a
key, you would read it,
and then it's returned.
So I spent that day in
this incredible place.
And then after my third visit,
Pearl Thomas said to me,
you just open up, you
take the books out.
I trust you.
Well, that night I had a dream
and I wrote the dream down.
And you and I have had shows
before talking about dreams,
and dreams have guided me.
So I brought the dream
to Pearl, and she gasps.
She goes, oh, I think
Mr. Hall should see this.
So she apparently
gave it to Mr. Hall.
And three days
later, he calls me up
and invites me to visit him.
Now Mr. Hall was in such
demand that nobody really could
get appointments with him.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: And it was very funny
because people, I was told,
would call and say, this is
Plato, this is Jesus Christ,
I would love to meet Mr. Hall.
So they were screaming, and
nobody was getting in there.
But he calls me
up, and I meet him.
And just as you and I are
looking at each other,
he looks at me and
he goes, who are you?
>>REGINA: Well, that's the
big fat question, isn't it?
Who is Steven Ross?
Well, I have some ideas.
But you are a
unique human being.
>>ROSS: And I said,
I am a student.
And he said, why have you come?
And I said, I want to get
into your personal vault.
And he said, OK.
>>REGINA: Just like that.
>>ROSS: Just like that.
And the reason he did was
because his Philosophical
Research Society
was built in 1934.
My dream was how he
wanted to build the PRS,
but he did not
have enough money.
And he, of course--
this would be in the 1920s--
I wasn't born until
1949, so he knew
there was no way I could know.
It was a calling card
from my spiritual sources
that allowed me to go
into his personal vault,
not the 50,000 books,
but his personal vault,
and xerox what I wanted to do,
with the proviso I would never
sell any of those books that
I found in there while he
was alive because his society
was reprinting old books.
>>REGINA: But the point
was that he saw you,
he saw you who you really
are, and he trusted you
because of the
ethics of your being,
and also the deep, deep,
deep knowledge that you
bring through.
And you have.
I mean, you've been doing
this your whole life.
And obviously, that's
what happened that day.
When you say you don't
know what you said,
you streamed some apparently
pertinent information
through that the
group took notice of.
And so he already knew because
he has the same abilities,
so he was primed to meet
with you and to trust you.
So you started
photocopying, including
ancient, ancient parchments.
And as I read in the
foreword of the book--
no, the introduction-- you
wrote that you actually
incurred some eyesight
damage at the time
as a result of the photocopying.
>>ROSS: Of course, because I was
taking books written in 1620,
1650, 1700, walking out of the
vault, walking down a corridor
and putting them
on a xerox machine,
praying that the bindings
wouldn't break as I was
xeroxing each page one by one.
In fact, the
interesting story was
when I did it the very first
time, the very first book,
I walk out of the vault.
And the business manager
of the Philosophical
Research Society, this woman
went nuclear.
She had never seen or
heard of me before.
And she goes, what
are you doing,
and literally grabbed
me by my collar.
I'm going to put you in
the room with Mr. Hall.
Well, she put me in there.
He looks at me.
I look at him.
I said, I'm just doing
what we discussed.
Fine.
I walk out.
I don't know what she expected,
but I just looked at her.
>>REGINA: Thought you were
going to get a spanking.
>>ROSS: I really
do believe that.
And I was a little uppity.
I was like that then.
But I just said, no, I'm
just going to continue.
My eyes would kind
of be turned away,
but that xerox light,
I xeroxed about 30
ancient alchemical texts,
some manuscripts that
have never been printed.
With that opportunity, I really
was there about five months.
>>REGINA: I mean, what's
amazing is, and we'll
get to that later, but you now
possess what someone called
the new Manly P. Hall modern
day library because yours
is very similar, this incredible
library that you have.
We were talking off camera.
We've been friends
for a long time.
But book merchants
will come around
and start salivating when they
see what you have in there,
some of it under glass also.
Very, very ancient.
And so do you think that it
was your exposure to Manly P.
Hall's library that really
gave you kind of the impetus
and imbued you with
the desire to create
this library of your own,
this amazing material?
>>ROSS: I would like to say yes.
But I will say that I always
had this innate feeling,
and I've also had numerous
past lives that I've been--
>>REGINA: A librarian?
>>ROSS: A librarian.
How did you ever guess that?
>>REGINA: Because you
call yourself a librarian.
>>ROSS: I'm just a librarian,
but I have done it before.
I'll tell you what I did
pick up from Manly Hall.
Manly hall had
more books in print
than any living author
while he was alive.
>>REGINA: And that's
saying something, including
Rudolph Steiner and others.
>>ROSS: Absolutely.
It was the way that he wrote.
He never really wrote
books on phenomena.
His goal was how
individuals could
live a more balanced, loving,
beautiful life because people
can be into the phenomena,
but that doesn't
mean that they're happy.
That doesn't mean
that they're healthy.
Manly Hall wrote with such
beauty on a variety of topics.
What I picked up from
him was the understanding
that it isn't about how much an
individual knows that you meet.
It is how you unfold
within your own self.
And throughout all
of his writings,
he never is encouraging
people to follow his way.
So what I picked up was just
an incredible understanding
that all of these materials
that are written that are really
of a profound nature are
encouraging individuals
to unfold and
unflower themselves.
There is too many egos
existing in this field, people
who will go and say,
oh, anybody can do it.
But if you really
listen to them,
they're encouraging you to have
to come to them because only
they have the answer.
And it was interesting to note
in the materials I learned
from Mr. Hall was where
he said, what I've written
may seem contradictory
sometimes.
But everything, its intent is
to point you in a direction.
I am never going to give you
the answers, he would say.
But my intent is to point
you in the direction.
So I made a vow.
That is the strongest thing
that came out of my experience
there.
My vow is to encourage
people to help
them see what their
own potential is,
to light up the area around
them and let you know everything
that's possible for you.
Or another analogy I use is,
I'm like a bus stop bench.
People will come, will
share, but they're
going to go on their
bus route, and I'm
going to go on my bus route.
But during that time,
we've exchanged.
That is what was
the most impactful.
And so the library that I have,
hopefully it's the same way.
When people come,
what I tell them is,
I am just going to talk
about different sections.
You don't even have to keep
up with me as I circle.
I'm going to keep talking.
If something appeals to you,
you stop and you look at it,
and I just go about
my way talking.
And they may be five bookcases
back in another section.
These are the profound
people, I believe,
on this planet, Regina,
are the ones that don't
encourage us to follow them.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: They encourage us
to be within our own selves.
There is an old saying.
If we follow wise people,
we weaken ourselves.
But if we follow ourselves,
we become wise people.
>>REGINA: Very truly said.
Before we get into
this, what you
were able to photograph in the
vault, has much of it come out?
Because we're going to talk
about some major information
that was in that vault
that's just now coming out,
literally 92 years
after it was written.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: Was there quite
a bit of that in there?
>>ROSS: Well, some of
the old alchemical books
have been reprinted now.
When I did the
xeroxing in '78, '79.
We just didn't have that.
Now quite a lot of
reprints come out of India,
and they come out with
beautiful leather binding
and they're very inexpensive.
And it's good because
I'm a very firm believer,
I would rather have a photocopy
of ancient information
if I can't have the original.
It's not about the original,
it's about the information.
And quite a few of those
have been reprinted.
Manly Hall died in 1990.
I might have jumped on a
lot of reprinting of some
of the alchemical texts.
But that's not where I was
coming from at the time.
But what really attracted
me was none of the books,
but a little notebook that
said, Last Second Material
Arrived Too Late to Be Included
in the Secret Teaching Book.
The book, "The Secret
Teaching of All Ages",
which is magnum opus,
was the greatest book
of all the books
Manly Hall wrote.
So that really attracted me.
But I've got to say that
my spiritual sources
that led me to say, I want to
go into your private vault,
directed me to--
>>REGINA: To that
notebook for a reason.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: First of all, let's
just take the big boy up,
"Secret Teaching of All Ages".
And this book is--
it's so beautiful.
So this one we
found, for example,
is the image of as
above, so below.
And the way he
was able to depict
this in the magnificent artwork
embedded with the symbolism
is as important as the text.
>>ROSS: And in this notebook
that the information was not
included, people have
bought this book, which
was published in 1928, and they
have just read it straight.
But in the series of lectures
that Manly gave in 1928, which
were not included
in this book, he
speaks about how he envisioned
people reading this book,
and how they were to approach
this book chapter by chapter,
symbol by symbol.
And that's what makes
this material very, very
important that I did
find in his vault,
was that it was talking about
the true intent of the book.
Now when a book
comes out, you would
believe the true
intent is somebody
is sharing information, and
we're satisfied with that.
But when somebody has writings
about the deeper reasons
why the book has
been written, you
would really want to know that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's the key.
>>ROSS: It is the key.
And that is what I found
in these materials is
his key of saying not only
how to approach the book,
but within here saying,
the italicized words
are leading to a mark and
part of the inner teachings
of the inner teachings.
And that is very, very
profound from an individual
who had the awareness and
knowledge that Manly Hall had.
He would give lectures
that he charged $1.00,
the first time he lectured
until his last lecture.
When they're typed out,
they're 15 pages single spaced,
and he never used notes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That was like Steiner.
Just streamed it,
just streamed it.
>>ROSS: And so here,
when he's talking
about the big book
and these materials,
for those individuals
who are not only into him
and have got the
book, but people
who are studying and
learning in this field,
it's very important to have.
>>REGINA: So essentially
what he was saying
is that if you read this
book with the understanding
that when you see
italicized words or phrases,
you're being given a symbol.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And then it goes
deeper by saying
people are not
really understanding
what symbols are meant to do.
There is a little bit more to
symbols than people realize.
The ancients set up the
symbols in their time
to evoke things having to do
with the mind, the spirit.
>>REGINA: Access
between dimensions.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And what's happened is over
time, when people start
attaching their
analysis of a symbol,
it starts changing from what
those original symbols really
were meant to be sharing with
individuals who would be gazing
because it's about how
we observe anything
that is very important.
And basically what
these pages were,
Manly Hall intended to put the
pages here into the big book.
But they weren't able to
get in because they arrived
at the printer too late.
So then he thought,
OK, I have some pages.
I might as well turn
them into lectures.
So here we have 20
lectures elaborating
further upon where he might
have had one page in the book,
there's now three or four pages
with a more full-blown lecture
on a particular topic.
>>REGINA: This is not edited.
This is in his original,
typewritten on a typewriter
documents.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Exactly how I found it.
What I did was I
put an introduction.
I have not even commented
on any of the materials
other than what you
and I are doing now,
purely because I don't think
we should always accept
somebody else's
analysis, what they
believe something is saying.
>>REGINA: You're
talking about something
that is really more a matter of
consumption versus engagement.
And I think we are a
consumptive species right now.
We've been led to be consumers.
So it's a kind of a
double-edged sword
in a way, in that you have
all this incredible ability
to access ancient
teachings of all kinds
from throughout the ages
because of the internet.
And if you're going to do snail
mail way because of libraries,
the one or two in the world
that exist like yours,
people can get that information.
It's there for us
to engage with.
But instead, it's easy,
oftentimes, to say, oh--
I fall prey to it.
I'm guilty of it myself.
Oh, I saw an interview
with so-and-so.
That was really cool.
I'm going to incorporate
that into my own stuff.
It's really easy to do that.
But it's hard to actually
sit down and take the time
to engage to where
your life becomes
this more fulsome expression
of these principles.
>>ROSS: And what I would
love for your audience
to get out of this show is
that they trust themselves,
that they recognize that
wisdom comes from experience,
wisdom comes from a lifestyle.
This is why, when we
look at these ancients
and call them wise,
it is because they
didn't all of a sudden
wake up and they were wise.
It was how they
lived their life,
how they observed nature,
not only of the world,
but the nature of people.
What somebody should
get out of our sharing
is to trust themselves,
to be observant,
and to recognize
knowledge and belief.
Knowledge is when you
have firsthand contact
with something.
Otherwise, it's a belief.
>>REGINA: Everyone watching
this has their own divine genius
and beauty and is looking for
that core truth in themselves.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So this is
one doorway to it.
Let's go into--
you're going to share
with us the essence of five
of the missing chapters,
obviously not the whole thing,
and including symbolism,
and including one primal
symbol, which ironically,
I interviewed another
man named Robert Gilbert,
and he really focused on this
Manly P. Hall symbol, which
is this symbol, the hermetic
symbol, the Egyptian symbol,
the circle with the
dot at the center.
That's one of them.
So we'll do that, but we'll
do a few others as well.
So let's talk about the nature
of that kind of symbolism.
>>ROSS: Manly Hall used the
example of all existence
as a piece of
paper with the idea
that the paper just
went on endlessly,
and it's completely blank.
And the dot he
identified as God,
or the first aspect coming out
of the void of nothingness.
And he goes on to talk about
a dot, a line, and a circle.
And he ties in that
original dot with what he
considers absolute philosophy.
There's absolute philosophy.
There's relative philosophy.
For him, absolute philosophy
was a total understanding
and awareness of whatever.
You are going to
the actual source
of whatever something might
be, the cause, not the effect.
As you go from this dot
and you make a line,
you have something in action.
And in action is already
coming from out of that dot,
out of the cause, and you now
are working towards an effect.
And so in a very easy way in
four pages, which I certainly
can't do in two
minutes, the idea
is that these symbols
are representative
of what takes place
not only in the world,
but within an individual, and
within an individual's mind,
and within an individual's
even spiritual essence.
That dot is the original aspect.
Some people may call
it the hermetic secret,
the alchemical secret.
But it is a place that you
want to be going towards.
Rather than being on the line
where you're going in action,
you are going back to
a place of inaction.
But this is representative in
other cultures, whether it's
Buddhism, where you quiet
yourself down, meditation.
It isn't about the action.
It isn't about what political
party you belong to.
It isn't about what
religion you belong to.
You don't take those with you.
You take the essences with you.
You take what you
learn with you.
But you don't take any kind
of material aspects with you.
This is going in line
with exactly what
you're talking about.
The more that people stress
and look at the activity
that they're involved
with, the further away
they are getting from
where they need to be.
>>REGINA: The essence.
>>ROSS: Absolutely,
because people need
to ask a fundamental question.
Why am I here?
What is the purpose
that I am alive
and breathing in this reality?
>>REGINA: OK.
There is another area.
So we kind of skipped
right through to the real,
like I said, primal
essence of symbolism.
One of the other chapters
is on agents and elements
used to perpetuate knowledge.
>>ROSS: And we're going to get
right back again because it's
all about symbols.
It is about what you do
when you see a symbol.
The original intent
by the ancients,
anybody who creates a symbol, is
to invoke much deeper awareness
than most people would think.
Now you look at a symbol,
you go, oh, it's McDonald's.
Oh, it's the Rosicrucian.
Oh, it's the hermetic.
>>REGINA: Chanel.
>>ROSS: It's Chanel.
That's surface dwelling.
But the original
formation of these symbols
evokes responses very, very deep
within an individual's psyche.
So the key, what
you just read there,
is these symbols,
when you really
discern, when you observe
them, when you discern them,
when you really take the time--
people say it's like mandalas.
>>REGINA: Well, yeah, you
allow your whole field
to be open to it without
expectation or projection.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And the secret of
this is, and what
Manly Hall did in his big book,
and what he elaborated here,
was approach it wide open.
And this was something that
I've been very lucky in my life.
And probably you've
experienced this, too.
Somebody with some
topic will come to you
and they'll start explaining.
They go, you probably
already know this.
Yeah, they're speaking
about some nuclear physics.
I have no idea what
they're talking about.
But here's what they'll say.
They'll go, you already
know this, so I'm sorry.
Well, I may not know it.
And even things I do know,
when I am with somebody new--
>>REGINA: You don't know
it the way they know it.
>>ROSS: And I will
just approach this
as I am going to
listen to everything
you're sharing with me.
I know nothing.
I don't know.
Once they've
finished, then I can
let my whatever, wisdom,
knowledge, bubble up, and say,
wow, I had heard this.
I assumed that.
Nobody is listening
today to other people.
And this is bringing us
further and further away--
>>REGINA: From the dot.
I mean, even in science now,
Manjir Samanta-Laughton,
a wonderful M.D.,
former M.D., in Britain
who had her own experiences,
kind of like Nassim Haramein
on the subject of black holes.
And it just hit her one day.
She just saw it all,
and that now there's
more and more evidence
for the truth of this, is
they're starting to understand
black holes a little better.
It's not something that
sucks the life out of it.
These are the points, the
centers of all creation,
and they're even at the center
of the cells of our body,
constantly receiving
information,
and then, as you say,
outputting into whatever
that mind is into effect.
>>ROSS: And that is a
beautiful image of Manly Hall.
As above, so below, that
it reiterates constantly
from the mundane world which we
are in to the spiritual world.
It is all reiterated
over and over again.
>>REGINA: And this is the part
that I find beautiful about it,
is the multidimensionality of
it, in that if a black hole,
or that point, the
dot, is the essence,
meaning the pure flow of the
original information coming
forth from us, from
ourselves, from the universe,
from the great godheads--
this is coming through many
dimensions, not just ours.
It's coming from this
incredible planum of all.
And we represent
that, every one of us.
Every cell in our
body represents that.
>>ROSS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And could
be, if we're open,
if we're healthy, if we have
an open attitude, receiving
impulses even through
the cells of our being
of this interdimensional,
multidimensional information.
>>ROSS: You need to be
telling the world this.
>>REGINA: You already are.
No, I mean, it's just,
to me, beautiful.
That's how I view life.
And I view the notion of this
point of these black holes.
And Manly P. Hall's--
essentially, you
can go all through
these beautiful drawings
and all the symbolism.
But what does it
really come down
to in terms of this
creative force that
exists throughout the universe
and throughout humanity?
>>ROSS: He mentioned the
book is only a gateway.
This is only a gateway.
Now it's interesting,
again, would have been nice
if he had put that
in the introduction
of his actual book.
But he says it in
1928 to this group.
I don't know how many people
were in attendance for these 20
lectures.
He did it over 21 days
one night after another.
I mean, it's really remarkable.
But he said, don't expect this
book is not going to give you
the immediate answers.
It is merely a gateway.
And that is what I hope my
life will mean to others
is it's only a gateway.
And we're allowed to do this
when somebody comes and says,
Steve, why is it you
and I buy our shoes
at the same shoe store, but
your feet don't seem to hurt?
What they're saying is,
what is your philosophy
when you are going
through the same things,
but it doesn't
seem to bother you?
This is when people open the
door, and then we can share--
for me, it's more LEFL, which
is laughter, excitement, fun,
and love--
but to get people there, you
have to kind of convince them
because they think
everything has ended because
of the politics right now.
I'm going to say
it's challenging,
but people should not lose who
they are and where they are
and what is truly going on now.
This has been a
big wake-up call.
Maybe it wouldn't have
happened if all of the tumblers
didn't come to create
what we have now.
>>REGINA: I think it
absolutely had to happen.
And as other channeled works by
people that I know and talk to
and have done
interviews with say,
this is the time of the ages.
It's been thousands
of years since you've
had such an amazing opportunity
and opening to now shift upward
in terms of your
consciousness and the way
you want to have a
sustainable planetary life.
>>ROSS: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: This is the time.
So that's why we have to
employ that incredible truth.
I want to get back to one
point in here before we go on.
And that is one of
the other points
that you feel free
sharing with us
is relationship existing
between the substance of mind
and the substance of spirit.
Explain that a
little bit for us.
>>ROSS: What Manly
Hall went on to say
here is the understanding
that one's mind is not really
who they are.
People just assume, all
of us, our ego, our mind
is who we are.
>>REGINA: Our thoughts.
>>ROSS: Our thoughts.
That is who we are.
And the substance of
the mind is physical.
The mind and the spirit
are vastly different.
And the mind can be
looked at as clothing
that we put on in a particular
living along with the ego
that we accept.
And ego, by the way,
is not a bad thing.
>>REGINA: It's just
a sense of identity.
>>ROSS: Right.
And there's people
who have said,
I've got to get rid of my ego.
And I have to share with them--
>>REGINA: That's a sense of who
and what you will collectively
have become.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
What you really
are asking is, you
want to spiritualize your ego.
But if you didn't have an
ego, you wouldn't be existing.
So the substance of the spirit--
now again, the symbols
can be accepted just
by the substance
of the mind, what
the mind has been conditioned to
remember, what it has observed.
Then the mind will
look at a symbol
and quickly interpret exactly
how you've just said it.
Oh, black hole
really means this.
But the substance of the
spirit is more encompassing.
And when we observe from
our spiritual essence
and look at things that we look
at all the time with our mind,
it is vastly different.
When one is perceiving
or apperceiving
the essence, the light
beings that we are,
they are not as inclined to
look at the substance, which
is the color, the
hair, or no hair.
They are looking
at pure essence.
The substance of the spirit
is bringing us to essence.
The substance of the mind
is generally physical,
the size, the color.
We want to look beyond that.
And if we were looking
at that, this world
would be quite
different than it is
right now because we
have actually taken 10
steps backward, in my opinion.
There is more segmenting,
more separation, more
taking it away, forgetting that
everybody bleeds the same color
right now, which is not
the light of the spirit,
but that is still a
physical substance.
Hey, we're of the same blood.
But we're just far away.
So the substance of
mind, the substance
is spirit are vastly different.
And we can arrive there.
So the substance
of spirit goes back
to the essences of objects,
of people, of nature.
And this is what
this lecture that he
gave was trying to present
to people, that yes,
the conditioning is you
look at it from your mind.
Where you want to get back to
is the essence of the spirit.
The substance of
spirit is light,
and you want to be
apperceiving everything
in its light essence.
>>REGINA: So beautifully said.
And Steven, we brought this up
in other shows, but all of this
comes into the abilities
that we will understand--
we should understand
now, in fact--
that we all innately
possess that we will
be expressing in the future.
The material world is
not what we think it is.
It's immaterial in nature.
How are our minds and our
hearts and our emotions function
can program outcomes that have
a material effect, but are
of a nonmaterial nature.
And this-- I've said this
before in other shows--
you developed
somewhere along the way
the ability to assist people
in their healing process, which
is very condensed
and quick process
you go to if a person
sincerely wishes to reverse
the imbalance in their body.
And you've dealt with many,
many, many, many, many people
in every single
kind of condition.
>>ROSS: But you know why?
Because I love them.
>>REGINA: You love
them, exactly.
You have this heart that I
said at the very beginning.
You have this heart energy
that comes out and meets
with their desire
to be whole again.
And in that, you work
through nonmaterial means,
pure information, pure
space, like a black hole,
reprogram it, and health
resumes in these people.
And that's not what we're
talking about directly.
That is the extension
of what we're all
capable of if we can understand
the essence of our true nature,
which is one thing
we're capable of.
>>ROSS: Right.
And again, why I think this
is pertinent is if somebody
is going to be
pointing the way, you
would want them to point you in
the safest direction possible
that will get you
where you want to go.
That is, again, why I have
admired Manly Hall's material,
is he is doing in its pure
form rather than saying,
well, OK, I read this,
and this is what I feel,
and I'm pointing you.
No.
This just pure, this is
what you want to go towards.
It is, again, when I talk
about an example of Plato
and Aristotle.
Aristotle's complaint
with Plato was
he's not telling you
exactly how to get,
if the end result
is this glass, Plato
would just be telling you, you
want to arrive at this glass.
For Aristotle in the
scientific approach,
it's how exactly
do you get there?
>>REGINA: He wants
the mechanical model
for how you get there.
>>ROSS: How do you get there?
How many miles, how many
feet, how many inches?
Then you are locked into
that particular approach.
I enjoy-- Manly Hall
is not the only one--
there's other great
philosophers--
the less that they put
their own spin on something.
And now let's go into even
what's happening in the world.
If each one of these stations
puts their own spin, all we do
is spin.
You turn the TV, you
get this channel.
>>REGINA: Everyone's
spinning out.
>>ROSS: It's spinning,
spinning, spinning, spinning.
You know what somebody
should go down to?
Empathy, love.
Maybe this sounds
trite, but if people
are claiming that
they're religious,
go back to the teachings.
Empathy, love.
Help thy neighbor.
Now ask yourself, one should
ask themselves, who is doing it,
and am I doing it?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And this is something,
too, when you're
talking about the notion of
putting the principle out
and letting people
take it as they will,
this is something that
came up in an interview I
did with the Theo Group
recently, with Sheila Gillette
and talked to those beings.
And some people
took offense at it
because they were
in personal pain.
They said, this is a magnificent
period of human history.
This is your opportunity to
use everything you've learned,
your creativity, and
your innate intellect
and work together to now
create the kind of world you
want to live in.
And people were
like, yeah, well,
what are we supposed to do?
I mean, they didn't
tell us what to do.
Missed the point.
The point is for you to
employ these things in you
and join with others to
create this new world the way
you want to see it.
>>ROSS: Right.
And people don't realize
"The Ancient Teachings"
says we are all creators.
We are down here to demonstrate
how we manage creative energy.
We are creators.
We can create our world in
the way that we want to.
Someone may say, well,
but this is happening.
No, it's your
perception and how you
handle what is happening
that is going to reflect
what the outcome is for you.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ROSS: And it's always
going to be that case.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
Steven, any final thoughts,
because we're just about
out of time.
>>ROSS: What happened?
>>REGINA: Well, good question.
>>ROSS: How is that
possible, Regina?
>>REGINA: Well, it's
happened, and here we are,
and we're trying to
recover ourselves.
Instead of waiting
for other people
to dictate what our world's
going to look like, what we're
going to salvage
from it, what looks
similar to how it was before
and what still exists now--
instead, going to
that center point
and figuring out who we are
and how we want to participate.
To me, that's critical.
That's everything.
>>ROSS: Yes.
And that's what I would say.
And I would like people to leave
right now with this thought.
Everything is possible.
We are creators.
And the more that we accent
the positive, the more positive
the world will become.
>>REGINA: Amen, my friend.
Thank you so much for
being here, Steven.
>>ROSS: Again, thank you.
>>REGINA: You'll
be able to access
this information for yourself
in Steven's new book he just
mentioned, "Unpublished
Pages of the Secret Teachings
of All Ages".
And if you enjoyed
this conversation,
you're probably going to enjoy
our other talks here on Gaia.
Just look for them
in the archives.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds".
[THEME MUSIC]